Start with the decision, not the topic.
Research the home-care market” names a subject.
Decide which customer segment our regional service should enter next year” gives the research a user, a consequence, and a finish line.
Name the audience as well.
A founder choosing a market needs different evidence from a product manager prioritizing features or a policy team assessing regulatory exposure.
The same facts can be organized differently because the decision and the accountable reader are different.
Then name the deliverable that would make the decision possible.
It might be a one-page executive brief, a competitor comparison, a recommendation memo, an annotated bibliography, or a table of market signals with dates and confidence.
A deliverable gives the research a visible end state.
Choose Search or Deep Research based on the work, not the prestige of the tool.
Search is enough for fast orientation and current updates.
Deep Research earns its cost when the question needs multiple steps, conflicting sources, several sub-questions, or a structured synthesis that others must audit.
For example, “What happened in grocery delivery during the last ninety days?” may begin with Search.
How is private-label adoption changing competitive exposure, and what should a branded manufacturer do?” needs multiple evidence threads and a decision-ready brief.
The common failure is upgrading every fuzzy question into Deep Research.
More depth cannot repair a missing decision.
It only produces a larger pile of information whose relevance no one has defined.
First, connect the research to one accountable decision and audience.
Second, define the deliverable that would make that decision possible.
Third, choose research depth from the number of steps and evidence threads required.